---
layout: post
title:  "Google Maps Magic"
date:   2015-06-16 23:15:38
categories: jekyll update
comments: True
---

Maps were the first infographics we as humans came up with. The ability to read maps was essential to survival and cartographers were professionals that were highly respected for their precise portrayal of our world. Now this fundamental human skill of navigation is no longer needed because of the tremendous advancements in modern maps. 

Google Maps has been the leader of this movement reshaping our perception of space. **A good product works like a magic trick.** The user sees an illusion that they mistake as the truth. Yet behind the simple trick is an invisible layer of complexity that was carefully chosen.

Some tricks they have implemented are smart design choices such as using a thicker white outline for the labels. Another is to hide orphan cities (cities that are not connected to a major road) and focus more heavily on the roads versus the towns. Both of these choices give Google Maps the superior readability that is less cluttered than its competitors.

However, the real sorcery that Google has devised has to do with the high precision of their data. To learn about real-time traffic Google uses information about how Android devices change their connection between cell towers. 

Their ambitious Street View project led them to acquire a rich dataset from which they can use advanced computer vision and machine learning to read everything from street numbers, business names, to traffic signs. Through this process they are able to provide turn by turn directions abiding by the changing traffic signs.

Invisible to ordinary users, Google Maps is able to hide the overwhelming complexity and clearly show only the necessary and actionable information. This makes them one of the most accessible and impressive products of our time.